58
CHAPTER 3
Pods: running containers in Kubernetes
INTRODUCING THE FLAT INTER-POD NETWORK
All pods in a Kubernetes cluster reside in a single flat, shared, network-address space
(shown in figure 3.2), which means every pod can access every other pod at the other
pod’s IP address. No NAT (Network Address Translation) gateways exist between them.
When two pods send network packets between each other, they’ll each see the actual
IP address of the other as the source IP in the packet.
Consequently, communication between pods is always simple. It doesn’t matter if two
pods are scheduled onto a single or onto different worker nodes; in both cases the
containers inside those pods can communicate with each other across the flat NAT-
less network, much like computers on a local area network (LAN), regardless of the
actual inter-node network topology. Like a computer on a LAN, each pod gets its own
IP address and is accessible from all other pods through this network established spe-
cifically for pods. This is usually achieved through an additional software-defined net-
work layered on top of the actual network.
 To sum up what’s been covered in this section: pods are logical hosts and behave
much like physical hosts or VMs in the non-container world. Processes running in the
same pod are like processes running on the same physical or virtual machine, except
that each process is encapsulated in a container. 
3.1.3
Organizing containers across pods properly
You should think of pods as separate machines, but where each one hosts only a cer-
tain app. Unlike the old days, when we used to cram all sorts of apps onto the same
host, we don’t do that with pods. Because pods are relatively lightweight, you can have
as many as you need without incurring almost any overhead. Instead of stuffing every-
thing into a single pod, you should organize apps into multiple pods, where each one
contains only tightly related components or processes.
Node 1
Pod A
IP: 10.1.1.6
Container 1
Container 2
Pod B
IP: 10.1.1.7
Container 1
Container 2
Node 2
Flat network
Pod C
IP: 10.1.2.5
Container 1
Container 2
Pod D
IP: 10.1.2.7
Container 1
Container 2
Figure 3.2
Each pod gets a routable IP address and all other pods see the pod under 
that IP address.
 
